# Infrastructure-as-Code Defect Prediction Using Program Dependence Graph Metrics
- **Context**: Infrastructure-as-code (IaC) is a DevOps practice that facilitates the management and provisioning of infrastructure by utilizing machine-readable files known as IaC scripts. Similarly to other types of source code artifacts, these scripts are susceptible to defects that may hinder their functionality.
- **Objective**: We conjecture that Program Dependence Graph (PDG) metrics may provide insights into the defectiveness of IaC scripts and, based on such a conjecture, we propose to develop and empirically evaluate a new defect prediction model based on PDG metrics.
- **Method**: We extracted 11 PDG metrics from 139 open-source Ansible projects and train five machine learners to assess their capabilities in a within-project scenario, other than comparing them with a state-of-the-art defect predictor relying on structural and process IaC-oriented metrics. Finally, we assessed the performance of a combined model that mixes together PDG and existing IaC-oriented metrics.
- **Results**: The most occurring predictors are MAXPDGVERTICES, EDGESTOVERTICESRATIO, EDGESCOUNT, and VERTICESCOUNT. Program Dependence Graph metrics-based models trained using RANDOM FOREST and DECISION TREE perform statistically better than those relying on the remaining classifiers. PDG metrics-based models correctly predicted the number of bugs over 20% more than Delta and Process metrics-based models. Finally, PDG metrics can improve the performance of Delta and Process metrics. However, such metrics have negligible effects on models employing ICO metrics.
